---
layout: post
title: Lab 8
permalink: /lab-8/
---

In this lab, you must build a circuit using your Arduino that reads values from at least two sensors and sends this data serially to [Processing](https://processing.org/). 

<span class="underlined">**Lab Objectives:**</span>

+ Explore serial communication between Arduino and Processing
+ Build an interface

<span class="underlined">**Lab 6 Resources:**</span>

+ Serial Communication [Videos](https://itp.nyu.edu/physcomp/videos/videos-serial-communication/)
+ [Asynchronous Serial Communication](https://itp.nyu.edu/physcomp/lessons/serial-communication/serial-communication-the-basics/)
+ [Interpreting Serial Data](https://itp.nyu.edu/physcomp/lessons/serial-communication/interpreting-serial-data/)

<span class="underlined">**The Arduino Side:**</span>

Build a circuit with two analog sensors. Print the values to the Serial Monitor in Arduino to ensure that you are getting good values. 

You will be sending these values serially to Processing, and since you are sending multiple values, you should send your data as an ASCII string and parse the data in Processing. Pay attention to how you format your data in the Serial Monitor before moving to Processing. 

<span class="underlined">**The Processing Side:**</span>

Connect to the Serial Port that your Arduino is sending data to, read and parse the values into Processing.

Design an interface using Processing - a visual output of data from your arduino circuit. Simple is okay (I'm not expecting you to make a game), focus on building something responsive and intuitive.

<hr>

***Lab 8 is due before class on Tuesday April 11th***

Your blog response should include a *clear* video of your working circuit, a a brief writeen description of what you made, and all of your code embedded with GitHub Gist. Submit a link to your blog post on Edmodo.
