---
layout: post
title: Project 1
permalink: /project-1/
---

Create a working prototype for an **Artificial Human Companion** (AHC). Think through the character and story that accompanies your AHC, i.e. visualize the world that your creation lives in. Is this AHC a pet of some sort? A partner/lover? A really needy alarm clock? Does she, he, they have a name? Gender preference? Are they autonomous? How do they relate with their human companions? Describe the person/persons your creation lives with or maybe it lives in isolation. Think through the relationship between the companions. What are the power dynamics between the two? 

While a working prototype is required, this is also an exercise in design fiction. Be as practical or fantastical as you want, all the while critically thinking through the relationship between humans and computers. You will be evaluated on your concept.

#### Checkpoints:

+ *February 17th* - Project Proposal Due
+ *March 2nd* - User Testing of 'Cardboard' Prototype
+ ***March 14th* - In-Class Project Demonstration / Presentation**
+ *March 17th* - Final Documentation Due

#### Presentation:

Each person (or group) is required to prepare a 10 minute presentation of their project. This presenation should be a performative demonstration or somehow creatively explain your Artificial Human Companion *[in situ](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/In_situ)*. You should also prepare a simple slideshow that showcases your process and approach in building this project. Practice your presentation!!

#### Project Evaluation Criteria:

20% each: Concept, Hardware, Software, Enclosure, Presentation/Documentation <br>

You are expected to document your work thoroughly on your blog as you go. Your grade for this project will largely be based on your in-class demonstration and on the documentation you publish to your blog. Include details of all phases of the project. Include a project summary as well, explaining what the system you built is, what it does, and what purpose it’s intended to serve. Your summary should introduce the project as if the reader has never heard of the project before.

#### Documentation Requirements:

+ a formal description / summary of the project (~500 words) 
+ ACH in situ (whatever format you chose)
+ high-quality, staged photos of the finished object (on a white or black background!) 
+ a video of your working project that showcases the user interaction
+ schematic drawing of your circuit
+ the code for your project *posted on Github*

#### Project 1 is worth 150pts