---
layout: post
title: Project 2 
permalink: /project-2/
---

Create a physically interactive system of your choice. Your focus in this assignment should be on careful and timely sensing of the relevant actions of the person or people you’re designing for, and on a clear, prompt, and effective response. Remember that any interactive system involves listening, thinking, and speaking from both parties. Your project must demonstrate a clear and engaging physical interaction.

The interaction should be iterative (according to Crawford’s definition). Don’t just make a system where the user takes one action, the system responds, and it’s over. Make a system where the user sees the system’s response, and takes more action in response, in a continued loop.

Spend a significant focus on the final enclosure of this project. Your final object must look finished and polished! All circuitry should be soldered on a protoboard, wires should be organized and secured, and your enclosure should be produced using the advanced tools available in the BTU lab (laser cutter, 3d printer, etc..).

You are expected to document your work thoroughly on your blog as you go. Include details of all phases of the project. Include a project summary as well, explaining what the system you built is, what it does, and what purpose it’s intended to serve. Your summary should be written in a way that someone unfamiliar with our class or your work would understand. You should also explain the technical details about how the project was built (so that you or someone else could conceivably recreate the project).

***You are expected to push your abilities to produce something that utilizes what you have learned in the class and that is meaningful or useful in some manner to yourself or the world.***

You are welcome to work in groups.

<br>
<span class="underlined">**Checkpoints:**</span>

**Thursday, April 6th** - [project proposal](/object-spring-17/p2-proposal) due in class<br>
**Thursday, April 20th** - first iteration due / show a working-prototype in class<br>
**Thursday, May 4th** - process presentation and demonstration of your working project<br>
**Sunday, May 7th** by end of day - final documentation due on your blog

<br>
<span class="underlined">**Your final blog documentation must include:** </span>

a well written description of the project (1 paragraph)
final photographs (high-production value, taken on a clean background or in the natural environment of the project)
a well produced, staged video of your finished, working project (it MUST be on a clean background or otherwise staged environment)
schematic diagram of the circuit
all code used for your project (you can post it on github or link to the file)
progress photos and written details about your process of building your project

<br>
<span class="underlined">**Project Evaluation Criteria: 20% each**</span>

Concept, Hardware, Software, Enclosure, Presentation/Documentation <br>

<br>

**Project 2 is worth 250pts**




