---
layout: post
title: Project 1
permalink: /project-1/
---

Create a working prototype for an **Artificial Human Companion** (AHC). Think through the character and story that accompanies your AHC, i.e. visualize the world that your creation lives in. Is this AHC a pet of some sort? A partner/lover? A really needy alarm clock? Does she, he, they have a name? Gender preference? Are they autonomous? How do they relate with their human companions? Describe the person/persons your creation lives with or maybe it lives in isolation. Think through the relationship between the companions. What are the power dynamics between the two? 

While a working prototype is required, this is also an exercise in design fiction. Be as practical or fantastical as you want, all the while critically thinking through the relationship between humans and computers. You will be evaluated on your concept.

<br>
**Checkpoints:**

- Thursday, February 16th - project proposal due in class
- Thursday, March 2nd - first iteration due / show a working-prototype in class
- **Tuesday, March 14th** - in class demo / presentation of your working project
- Friday, March 17th by end-of-day - final documentation due on your blog

<br>
**Proposal Requirements:**

- A detailed description of what you intend to build both from a techincal and conceptual perspective - *what* is this AHC and *how* will you build it
- A parts list - this includes things you need to buy AND parts that you already have
- A drawing or interaction diagram of the project 

***

<br>
**Your final blog documentation must include:**

+ a formal description / summary of the project (~500 words) 
+ high-quality photos of the finished object 
+ video of your working project
+ schematic drawing of your circuit (created in Fritzing or EagleCAD)
+ the code for your project (posted via gist or with a link to github)

<br>
**Project Evaluation Criteria: 20% each** <br>
Concept, Hardware, Software, Enclosure, Presentation/Documentation <br>

You are expected to document your work thoroughly on your blog as you go - your grade for this project will largely be based on your in-class demonstration and on the documentation you publish to your blog. Include details of all phases of the project. Include a project summary as well, explaining what the system you built is, what it does, and what purpose it’s intended to serve. Your summary should introduce the project as if the reader has never heard of the project before.

<br>
**Project 1 is worth 150pts**
