---
layout: post
title: Lab 3
permalink: /lab-3/
---

In this Lab you will transfer and solder one of your previous breadboarded circuits onto a protoboard. You will also come up with a concept for an interactive object.

**Lab Objectives:**

+ Learn to solder
+ Get your project off the breadboard
+ Develop a concept for an interactive object

**Tasks:**

<!-- <span class="underlined">Part 1</span> -->

1. Choose a circuit that you made already in this class (from lab 1 or 2). Draw the schematic for that circuit, then transfer the components from the breadboard to a small piece of [protoboard](https://www.sparkfun.com/products/13268). Solder your components to the protoboard and figure out a way to power your circuit *(pro tip: solder a wire for power and a wire for ground and power the protoboard from your breadboard...)*

2. Develop a concept for an interactive object. Write a description of your idea that explains the ***WHY***. Consider the feedback loop. Create and post any graphics or drawings that will help explain your concept.

3. Clean up your blog - delete any sample posts, fix any layout issues, swap out filler template content, make sure your categories are set up, etc. If you have a *'text widget'*, fill this with some useful content or delete it. If you have an *'about'* section, fill it out. *Come see me if you need help with wordpress!*

**Lab 3 Resources:**

+ [How to Solder Video](https://vimeo.com/107049478)


**Blog Response:** 

+ For your soldering sample: post photos of your process, your final board (working!), and a drawing of the circuit schematic. Is there anything you struggled with in this exercise?
+ Interactive Object: post a description and supplementing graphics that explain your idea. ***We will go through these in class!***

**Lab 3 is due before class on Thursday February 2nd.** Submit a link to your blog post on Edmodo. 